---
title: "Xerxes: Extensive Exploration of Scalable Hardware Systems with CXL-Based Simulation Framework"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2026-xerxes
excerpt: 'Compute Express Link (CXL) is an emerging industry standard that offers high-performance cache-coherent interconnects to heterogeneous devices, including host CPUs, computation accelerators, and memory devices. It aims to support high system scalability, peer-to-peer communication, and high-speed data transmission. To this end, the latest version of the CXL protocol introduces several new features, including port-based routing, device-managed coherence, and PCIe 6.0 support…'
date: 2026-04-27
venue: 'European Conference on Computer Systems (Eurosys)'
#paperurl: 'http://academicpages.github.io/files/paper3.pdf'
#citation: 'Your Name, You. (2015). &quot;Paper Title Number 3.&quot; <i>Journal 1</i>. 1(3).'
---
Compute Express Link (CXL) is an emerging industry standard that offers high-performance cache-coherent interconnects to heterogeneous devices, including host CPUs, computation accelerators, and memory devices. It aims to support high system scalability, peer-to-peer communication, and high-speed data transmission. To this end, the latest version of the CXL protocol introduces several new features, including port-based routing, device-managed coherence, and PCIe 6.0 support. However, the absence of CXL hardware and the methodological limitations of existing simulators hinder the exploration of these new architectures. To bridge this gap, we propose Xerxes, a novel simulation framework designed from the ground up to faithfully model the emerging features in the latest CXL protocol. It employs a dedicated interconnect layer to support interconnection within diverse system topologies. It also implements important components to conduct specific functions required by these features. Utilizing Xerxes, we comprehensively explore multiple aspects of CXL systems, including the system topology, the device-managed coherence, and the impacts of PCIe characteristics, and derive key observations that can inspire new designs of high-performance CXL systems. The codes of Xerxes are completely open-sourced and will be available at https://github.com/ommited-due-to-anonymous-purpose/Xerxes.

[Paper download](N/A)

Recommended citation: N/A.